# Text-Encryption

Encryption is a method of disguising data so that it cannot be read by anyone who does not know the 
key. The key is used to lock and unlock data. To encrypt data, Mathematical functions are to be 
performed on the data and the result of these functions would produce an output that makes the data 
appear as meaningless words or symbols to anyone who doesn't know how to reverse the operations. 
Encryption can be used to encrypt files that the owner feels are too sensitive for anyone else to read. 
And now, in the age of the Internet, encryption is used to encrypt data, like a credit card number, and 
then send it across the net. This way no one can read intercept and read the data while it is traveling 
through the web. The recipient of the data does have to know how to decrypt the information or else 
the data will look like garbage to the recipient too. Internet, encryption is used to encrypt data, like a 
credit card number, and then send it across the net. This way no one can read intercept and read the 
data while it is traveling through the web. The recipient of the data does have to know how to decrypt 
the information or else the data will look like garbage to the recipient too.


Encryption algoruthms is classified to two catogeries: classical algorithms and modern algorithm. 
In this project, we have chosen one algorithm of each catogery to compare between them.


1- Hill Cipher Algorithm

(i) Definition:-
Hill Cipher, in the pretext of classical cryptography, follows a polygraphic substitution cipher, which 
means there is uniform substitution across multiple levels of blocks. This polygraphic substitution cipher 
makes it possible for Hill Cipher to work seamlessly with digraphs (two-letter blocks), trigraphs 
(three-letter blocks), or any multiple-sized blocks for the purpose of building a uniform cipher.
Hill Cipher is based on linear algebra, the sophisticated use of matrices in general (matrix multiplication 
and matrix inverses), as well as rules for modulo arithmetic. Evidently, it is a more mathematical cipher 
compared to others.
The Hill Cipher is also a block cipher. A block cipher is an encryption method that implements a 
deterministic algorithm with a symmetric key to encrypt a block of text. It doesn’t need to encrypt one 
bit at a time like in stream ciphers. Hill Cipher being a block cipher theoretically, means that it can work 
on arbitrary-sized blocks.
While Hill Cipher is digraphic in nature, it can expand to multiply any size of letters to add more 
complexity and reliability for better use. Since most of the problems and solutions for Hill Ciphers are 
mathematical in nature, it becomes easy to conceal letters with precision.

(ii) Methodology:-
• Steps for Encryption Matrix generation 
1. Check whether the matrix K is invertible or not.
2. If inverse of matrix K does not exist, then adjust the diagonal elements (Increment the values of 
diagonal elements, one element at a time) so that the inverse of the resultant matrix (matrix obtained 
after changing diagonal elements) is invertible. This matrix becomes the Encryption matrix E.
In this algorithm it takes m successive plaintext characters and substitutes for then m cipher text 
characters.
The substitution is determined by m linear equations in which each character is assigned a numerical 
value (authors can take the character’s ASCII equivalent number or can assign a lookup table like
a = 0, b = 1, z = 25). Here for m = 3, the System can be described as follows: 
 C1= (E11 P1+E12 P2+E13 P3) mod n
 C2= (E11 P1+E12 P2+E13 P3) mod n 
 C3= (E11 P1+E12 P2+E13 P3) mod n
or C = EP mod n, where C and P are column vectors of length 3 , representing the Cipher 
text and plaintext respectively, and E is a 3 × 3 encryption matrix. All operations are performed
• Steps for Decryption Matrix generation 
For decryption, from the seed number once again in similar way E matrix is generated. Decryption 
required using the modulo inverse of the matrix E. The inverse E-1 of matrix E is defined by the equation 
E*E−1 = E−1*E = I Where I is the matrix that is all zeros expect for ones along the main diagonal from 
upper left to lower right. Hence decryption matrix D is generated by doing modulo inverse of encryption 
matrix. Multiply decryption matrix D with received cipher text number vector C and then do modulo 
operation. Then operate on the output resultant vector, substitute its equivalent characters and which is 
the plaintext. This can be explained as: Plaintext = P = D*C = E−1*C. [15]
In general, the algorithm can be expressed as follows:
Cipher text = C = E*P mod n.
Plain text = P = E -1*C mod n = E-1E*P = P.


2- RSA Algorithm

(i) Definition:-
The RSA algorithm (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) is the basis of a cryptosystem -- a suite of cryptographic 
algorithms that are used for specific security services or purposes -- which enables public key encryption 
and is widely used to secure sensitive data, particularly when it is being sent over an insecure network 
such as the internet.
RSA was first publicly described in 1977 by Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, though the 1973 creation of a public key algorithm by British 
mathematician Clifford Cocks was kept classified by the U.K.'s GCHQ until 1997.
Public key cryptography, also known as asymmetric cryptography, uses two different but mathematically 
linked keys-- one public and one private. The public key can be shared with everyone, whereas the 
private key must be kept secret.
RSA is a type of asymmetric encryption, which uses two different but linked keys.
In RSA cryptography, both the public and the private keys can encrypt a message. The opposite key from 
the one used to encrypt a message is used to decrypt it. This attribute is one reason why RSA has 
become the most widely used asymmetric algorithm: It provides a method to assure the confidentiality, 
integrity, authenticity, and non-repudiation of electronic communications and data storage.Many 
protocols, including Secure Shell (SSH), OpenPGP, S/MIME, and SSL/TLS, rely on RSA for encryption and 
digital signature functions. It is also used in software programs -- browses are an obvious example, as 
they need to establish a secure connection over an insecure network, like the internet, or validate a 
digital signature. RSA signature verification is one of the most commonly performed operations in 
network-connected systems.

(ii) Methodology:-
• Key generation
We get two different prime p q
The product of them is n where n is the public key 
 (n=p*q Φ(n)=(p-1) (q-1))
Choose an e such that 1 < e < ϕ(n), and such that e Must be coprime with ϕ(n)
Key is (n,e) [11]
• Message encryption 
As we have generated the key, we can change plain text to cipher text by the following formula
C=p^e mod n
• Message decryption
First, we need to get the private key using the following equation
d=e−1modϕ, d is called modular inverse
After we get the d we can easily decrypt the cipher text to plain text
p=c^d mod n [11]
